README.md, before:

# Town of Babel
March 34th of 2020, the town had just finished building the tallest tower the world had seen. When lil' Frump decides to check up on an owed payment, the tower's effects cause chaos to ensue.&nbsp; 

## Team:
#### Lead Designers:
    James McHugh
    Dylan Hill

**Lead Programmer:** Dylan Hill

**Lead Artist:** James McHugh&nbsp; 
&nbsp; 
&nbsp; 

## News
### March 27, 2020
Exactly two weeks since we turned the game in, and I'm happy to announce that it is now complete! There's quite a bit to talk about with this final update so let's get right into it.

#### Final Level
This update brings with it the introduction of the final level, that being level 4. This level has 5 "houses" (one is a garden) instead of the normal 4. Along with this, instead of a normal boss at the end, you will instead encounter the final boss!

#### Final Boss - Yung Smoothie
Lil' Frump's frenemy who owes him for a shipment of fruit. He's been mutated by the Tower and now has supernatural powers.
* Normal attacks involve a swipe and a jab that do a fair bit of damage.
* Involuntarily projectile vomits frequently, watch out for high damage projectiles.
* His ultimate move, where he releases a giant laser from his mouth
    - Has a predifined location that he has to walk to
    - The boss is immune during the startup (while walking) and the actual use!

#### NEW Difficulty - Classic Mode
This update also brings the inclusion of a new difficulty, titled Classic (the old is called Casual).
* Heal drops have a lower chance of dropping
* Heal drops heal for half as much
* NO AutoSave, when you die it's Game Over
* Houses are NOT optional, you must do every single one

**NOTE:** This update marks the completion of this game. This means there will be no more updates (outside of bug fixes). We hope you enjoy the game and thank you for playing!&nbsp; 
&nbsp; 

### March 24, 2020
It's been about a week and a half since the "release" of our game and I'm happy to say that the bosses are now complete! I'll take a moment to discuss the changes with each boss, and after there are some tweaks/fixes I'd like to talk about as well.

#### Slow Dogg
The only changes Slow Dogg got were general tweaks and a fix regarding his caged dogs.

#### J. Swole
J. Swole gained just a single new ability, best described as a basic swing punch. It comes out slower and has less reach than jab, but hits a much wider range and does more damage. Our thoughts behind this stem from Swole's character being a bodybuilder rapper. Seeing as we designed him as a not-too-smart bodybuilder, the idea was that he really doesn't know how to do much, but still hits pretty hard.

#### 8ight 9ine
8ight 9ine actually gained two new abilities, dash and lunge. Both of these abilites are essentially just slightly upgraded versions of what the player has. He gains dash because he's a ninja, and his mobility was always meant to be fairly high. His new lunge ability is actually the origin of the player's lunge ability, hence it being better. Of course along with his new abilites 8ight 9ine got an overhauled cooldown system, as if left the way it was the player would be easily overwhelmed.

#### Tyson the Caster
Tyson the Caster gained just one ability, which can be described as a watermelon meteor. When he casts this move, you will see a target appear on top of your character. Watch out! because in about one second a watermelon will come crashing down (with an animation) to deal lots of damage if you're in its radius. This ability will also stun you for half a second, so you **really** don't want to get hit by it.

#### General Tweaks and Fixes
All bosses got their cooldowns reworked to have slight variance on their ability usage, making for very slight unpredictability. Along with this bosses that got new abilities had their decision trees updated to support the new abilities without spamming everything. A major fix has been implemented as well, involving certain fruit projectiles. Both the player and Tyson could have their fruit (Fruit Bat ability for player, orbiting fruits for Tyson) despawn immediately after spawning/firing due to colliding with objects. This has been remedied and now the fruit will not despawn from hitting walls for at least half a second.

**NOTE:** Going forward this game has become a passion project. This means updates, while semi-frequent now, will most likely completely stop once once I reach what I consider complete for my first game.&nbsp; 
&nbsp; 

### March 14, 2020
Well the due date is here and this is what we've got. Only things done after actual due date are a disclaimer and some tweaks.

Hey guys, Dylan here. Before I get into our upcoming updates I want to share our current base features.

#### Player Ability: Dash
Your best friend. This ability, activated by pressing (Space) will temporarily lock you in your current velocity, but also speed you up, shrink your hitboxes, and make you immune to damage for its duration plus a very short cooldown period.

#### Randomly generated Weapons
* Each weapon drop has a rarity, which is tied to its damage. The higher the rarity, the more damage it does!
* Every weapon has a chance of dropping at a higher rarity, be on the lookout for these!
* ##### Abilities
    - Each weapon has the chance of dropping with one of the following abilities:
    - **Super Dash:** An additional dash to your normal one. Better in every way.
    - **Bling Flash:** Stun opponents in a wide area around you.
    - **Boom Speaker:** Push opponents close to you away, some enemies are less affected.
    - **Lunge: (Knife Only)** Lunges the player in their facing direction, dealing double damage and providing immunity while doing so.
    - **Fruitball: (Bat Only)** Smash a fruit in the direction of your mouse with your bat that does triple damage.
    - **Laser: (Gun Only)** Fires a projectile that does double damage and hits up to three enemies.
    - *Ability drop rates change based on rarity and location (street vs house)*

#### Randomly generated Enemies
The enemies in each location are randomly generated for your replayability! Didn't do so hot because a house spawned enemies you hadn't seen before? Just refresh the page for a new run. There are currently five main enemy types, as follows:

* **Dog:** Fast but weak, be careful not to ignore them!
* **Thug (Knife):** Short range but still quick, be warry!
* **Thug (Bat):** More range but slower movement and swing.
* **Bodyguard:** Very slow with limited range but has a long range slow windup stun.
* **Police:** Ranged type with gun, will try to space you. DO NOT IGNORE.

#### Randomly ordered Bosses
Whenever you load up a level for the first time, it will select one of the available bosses to put in its boss house. For the first level this is from all four, then the next level selects from the remaining three, and so on. There are currently four bosses:

* **Slow Dogg:** Wheelchair bound old school rapper. Resident dog keeper.
    - Fires a shotgun and swings with a cane, calls his dogs occasionally.
* **J. Swole:** Goes to the gym a lot, some say too much, definitely more than he raps.
    - Throws out jabs in you get in range, likes to slam the ground with a strong stun.
* **Itachi 8ight 9ine:** Thinks he's a ninja and a rapper, fails at both.
    - Throws shurikens frequently, will slash you if you get to close.
* **Tyson the Caster:** Was given psychic powers by the Tower, now thinks he's the best.
    - Summons a single floating fruit to target you.
    - Summons several floating fruit that orbit him, he will also target you with them occasionally.&nbsp;  
&nbsp; 

#### Future Plans
And now the fun part, what our plans from here are. We do in fact have a final boss planned and with him a fourth level. I don't want to give away too much but I will say he's going to have two phases! Either before him or immediately following (depends on James), the currently existing bosses will get new abilities and redone decision trees. I personally would like to see another enemy added to game (we were thinking suicide bomber) but I don't know that I can squeeze any more out of James than what he's already drawn and will be drawing. I also have plans to add a hard mode to our game, as several veteran gamers like myself find the current iteration too easy. If I can get James to send resources to me I may end up eventually adding a procedurally generated endless mode for the roguelike fans out there, as it was originally intended. Of course along with all of these updates I will be optimizing what I can and changing how things are done because I think it'll work better some new way. If you're really that curious you can follow the updates more closely at [my fork](https://github.com/dhill30/townofbabel.github.io, "dhill30/townofbabel").

**NOTE:** Going forward this game has become a passion project, as the assignment portion of it is complete. This means updates, while semi-frequent at first, will most likely completely stop once once I reach what I consider complete for my first game.&nbsp; 
&nbsp; 

##### Developing Town of Babel since Jan 2020
Game for TCSS 491 - Computational Worlds

Commit message:

Fullscreen Update!
adds automatic fullscreen to the game

- knife thugs are now slightly faster

README.md, after:

# Town of Babel
March 34th of 2020, the town had just finished building the tallest tower the world had seen. When lil' Frump decides to check up on an owed payment, the tower's effects cause chaos to ensue.&nbsp; 

## Team:
#### Lead Designers:
    James McHugh
    Dylan Hill

**Lead Programmer:** Dylan Hill

**Lead Artist:** James McHugh&nbsp; 
&nbsp; 
&nbsp; 

## News
### June 16, 2020
It's been over two months since the last real update, and even I thought I wasn't going to work on this game anymore. Low and behond here we are! Details on the update are below and don't worry, I have more planned for the summer.

#### NEW Feature - Automatic Fullscreen
This update adds fullscreen to the game! Now when you load up the game it will automatically scale itself to your monitor's resolution. Don't worry about hitting F11 to fullscreen your browser as when you click in the game it will auto fullscreen for you (similar to YouTube's fullscreen). There have also been some minor changes/bug fixes like a slight bump in the key detection and knife thugs now move slightly faster. Enjoy this update and look forward to some updates coming in the summer!
&nbsp; 

### March 27, 2020
Exactly two weeks since we turned the game in, and I'm happy to announce that it is now complete! There's quite a bit to talk about with this final update so let's get right into it.

#### Final Level
This update brings with it the introduction of the final level, that being level 4. This level has 5 "houses" (one is a garden) instead of the normal 4. Along with this, instead of a normal boss at the end, you will instead encounter the final boss!

#### Final Boss - Yung Smoothie
Lil' Frump's frenemy who owes him for a shipment of fruit. He's been mutated by the Tower and now has supernatural powers.
* Normal attacks involve a swipe and a jab that do a fair bit of damage.
* Involuntarily projectile vomits frequently, watch out for high damage projectiles.
* His ultimate move, where he releases a giant laser from his mouth
    - Has a predifined location that he has to walk to
    - The boss is immune during the startup (while walking) and the actual use!

#### NEW Difficulty - Classic Mode
This update also brings the inclusion of a new difficulty, titled Classic (the old is called Casual).
* Heal drops have a lower chance of dropping
* Heal drops heal for half as much
* NO AutoSave, when you die it's Game Over
* Houses are NOT optional, you must do every single one

**NOTE:** This update marks the completion of this game. This means there will be no more updates (outside of bug fixes). We hope you enjoy the game and thank you for playing!&nbsp; 
&nbsp; 

### March 24, 2020
It's been about a week and a half since the "release" of our game and I'm happy to say that the bosses are now complete! I'll take a moment to discuss the changes with each boss, and after there are some tweaks/fixes I'd like to talk about as well.

#### Slow Dogg
The only changes Slow Dogg got were general tweaks and a fix regarding his caged dogs.

#### J. Swole
J. Swole gained just a single new ability, best described as a basic swing punch. It comes out slower and has less reach than jab, but hits a much wider range and does more damage. Our thoughts behind this stem from Swole's character being a bodybuilder rapper. Seeing as we designed him as a not-too-smart bodybuilder, the idea was that he really doesn't know how to do much, but still hits pretty hard.

#### 8ight 9ine
8ight 9ine actually gained two new abilities, dash and lunge. Both of these abilites are essentially just slightly upgraded versions of what the player has. He gains dash because he's a ninja, and his mobility was always meant to be fairly high. His new lunge ability is actually the origin of the player's lunge ability, hence it being better. Of course along with his new abilites 8ight 9ine got an overhauled cooldown system, as if left the way it was the player would be easily overwhelmed.

#### Tyson the Caster
Tyson the Caster gained just one ability, which can be described as a watermelon meteor. When he casts this move, you will see a target appear on top of your character. Watch out! because in about one second a watermelon will come crashing down (with an animation) to deal lots of damage if you're in its radius. This ability will also stun you for half a second, so you **really** don't want to get hit by it.

#### General Tweaks and Fixes
All bosses got their cooldowns reworked to have slight variance on their ability usage, making for very slight unpredictability. Along with this bosses that got new abilities had their decision trees updated to support the new abilities without spamming everything. A major fix has been implemented as well, involving certain fruit projectiles. Both the player and Tyson could have their fruit (Fruit Bat ability for player, orbiting fruits for Tyson) despawn immediately after spawning/firing due to colliding with objects. This has been remedied and now the fruit will not despawn from hitting walls for at least half a second.

**NOTE:** Going forward this game has become a passion project. This means updates, while semi-frequent now, will most likely completely stop once once I reach what I consider complete for my first game.&nbsp; 
&nbsp; 

### March 14, 2020
Well the due date is here and this is what we've got. Only things done after actual due date are a disclaimer and some tweaks.

Hey guys, Dylan here. Before I get into our upcoming updates I want to share our current base features.

#### Player Ability: Dash
Your best friend. This ability, activated by pressing (Space) will temporarily lock you in your current velocity, but also speed you up, shrink your hitboxes, and make you immune to damage for its duration plus a very short cooldown period.

#### Randomly generated Weapons
* Each weapon drop has a rarity, which is tied to its damage. The higher the rarity, the more damage it does!
* Every weapon has a chance of dropping at a higher rarity, be on the lookout for these!
* ##### Abilities
    - Each weapon has the chance of dropping with one of the following abilities:
    - **Super Dash:** An additional dash to your normal one. Better in every way.
    - **Bling Flash:** Stun opponents in a wide area around you.
    - **Boom Speaker:** Push opponents close to you away, some enemies are less affected.
    - **Lunge: (Knife Only)** Lunges the player in their facing direction, dealing double damage and providing immunity while doing so.
    - **Fruitball: (Bat Only)** Smash a fruit in the direction of your mouse with your bat that does triple damage.
    - **Laser: (Gun Only)** Fires a projectile that does double damage and hits up to three enemies.
    - *Ability drop rates change based on rarity and location (street vs house)*

#### Randomly generated Enemies
The enemies in each location are randomly generated for your replayability! Didn't do so hot because a house spawned enemies you hadn't seen before? Just refresh the page for a new run. There are currently five main enemy types, as follows:

* **Dog:** Fast but weak, be careful not to ignore them!
* **Thug (Knife):** Short range but still quick, be warry!
* **Thug (Bat):** More range but slower movement and swing.
* **Bodyguard:** Very slow with limited range but has a long range slow windup stun.
* **Police:** Ranged type with gun, will try to space you. DO NOT IGNORE.

#### Randomly ordered Bosses
Whenever you load up a level for the first time, it will select one of the available bosses to put in its boss house. For the first level this is from all four, then the next level selects from the remaining three, and so on. There are currently four bosses:

* **Slow Dogg:** Wheelchair bound old school rapper. Resident dog keeper.
    - Fires a shotgun and swings with a cane, calls his dogs occasionally.
* **J. Swole:** Goes to the gym a lot, some say too much, definitely more than he raps.
    - Throws out jabs in you get in range, likes to slam the ground with a strong stun.
* **Itachi 8ight 9ine:** Thinks he's a ninja and a rapper, fails at both.
    - Throws shurikens frequently, will slash you if you get to close.
* **Tyson the Caster:** Was given psychic powers by the Tower, now thinks he's the best.
    - Summons a single floating fruit to target you.
    - Summons several floating fruit that orbit him, he will also target you with them occasionally.&nbsp;  
&nbsp; 

#### Future Plans
And now the fun part, what our plans from here are. We do in fact have a final boss planned and with him a fourth level. I don't want to give away too much but I will say he's going to have two phases! Either before him or immediately following (depends on James), the currently existing bosses will get new abilities and redone decision trees. I personally would like to see another enemy added to game (we were thinking suicide bomber) but I don't know that I can squeeze any more out of James than what he's already drawn and will be drawing. I also have plans to add a hard mode to our game, as several veteran gamers like myself find the current iteration too easy. If I can get James to send resources to me I may end up eventually adding a procedurally generated endless mode for the roguelike fans out there, as it was originally intended. Of course along with all of these updates I will be optimizing what I can and changing how things are done because I think it'll work better some new way. If you're really that curious you can follow the updates more closely at [my fork](https://github.com/dhill30/townofbabel.github.io, "dhill30/townofbabel").

**NOTE:** Going forward this game has become a passion project, as the assignment portion of it is complete. This means updates, while semi-frequent at first, will most likely completely stop once once I reach what I consider complete for my first game.&nbsp; 
&nbsp; 

##### Developing Town of Babel since Jan 2020
Game for TCSS 491 - Computational Worlds
